# cc65-contrib - Contributing
This repository is a collection of programs/projects made by users of cc65 and
as such is somewhat loosely connected to the main project. It is however much more
relaxed regarding what goes into the repository and how it should look like.

If you are just looking for the files go [back here](README.md).

---

## Requirements

If you want to contribute your program, please read the following few lines and
please adhere to these rules:

- Each project/program must live self contained in a seperate sub directory in
  the main tree of the repository.

- This subdirectory must contain a "Makefile" for GNU make, which provides
  these 3 standard targets:
  - default (no target given): build program, skip extra steps to eg build disk
    images of these require tools outside of cc65.
  - "all": build program, skip extra steps to eg build disk images of these
    require tools outside of cc65.
  - "clean": remove any files that were generated by this Makefile

- There should be no backslashes for path seperators used in source- or makefiles,
  use forward slashes instead. They will also work in windows :)

- Makefiles must not contain any shell specific things

## Nice to have

- a textfile named readme.txt that briefly describes the program, and how to build
it.

## making a pull request

- a pull request for a new project/program will:
    - add a subdirectory for the new project/program in the root of the repository
    - add that subdirectory to the Makefile in the root of the repository
    - update the list of programs in README.md
    - make sure the program compiles and works with the recent git head revision
      of the compiler/toolchain

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## WIP note

This Repository was created from the old archive hosted at sourceforge. This
repo is an ongoing effort to clean that stuff up a bit.

- [DONE] unpack all archives, each into a seperate directory
- [DONE] create Makefiles and provide the 3 standard targets for each
- [DONE] create toplevel makefile

- [TODO] all included sources should be cleaned from whatever is copied from the
standard toolchain/libraries:
        - defines or complete header files. include the respective header files
from the toolchain instead
- [TODO] fix the remaining binaries (see below)
- [TODO] make a github action that checks out cc65 on PR and compiles everything
- [TODO] move this repo to the official cc65 account

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

## FIXME!

some programs still need some extra love:

```
3dmaze-0.2          support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
circlefracv1-1      support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
darth-vader         support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
drachenv1.1         support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
sierpinski-1.1      support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
tgi-preview-0.0.1   support TARGET=c128-vdc, atari800, apple2 in Makefile
hwclock-1.0         support TARGET=c128, c610 in Makefile

autorun-1.5.0       needs a better demo/testcase

calomin             the binaries (atari800) do not work
pet_tetris          the binaries (PET) do not work
picoos-demo-0.8.0   the binaries (c64) do not work

aclock-geos         untested

lynx-cart-demo-1.1  does not build, some things need to be updated
```
